docusaurus/docs/principles/index.mdx, before:

import WorkInProgressNotice from '@site/src/components/WorkInProgressNotice';

# Guiding Principles

<WorkInProgressNotice />

**Understanding-oriented content about design decisions and architecture**

This section explores the "why" behind the ATT&CK Data Model - the design decisions, architectural choices, and trade-offs that shape the library.
These explanations provide context and rationale rather than instructions, helping you understand the deeper principles that guide the project.

## Dive Deeper

### Foundational Context

- **[Why the ATT&CK Data Model Exists](./why-adm-exists)** - The problem context, solution approach, and value proposition
- **[Why TypeScript Instead of X](./why-typescript)** - Why we chose TypeScript
- **[Why Zod Instead of X](./why-zod)** - Why we chose Zod over other options
- **[Extending STIX](./extending-stix)** - How ATT&CK extends the STIX 2.1 specification

### ATT&CK Specification Understanding

- **[ATT&CK Specification Overview](./attack-specification-overview)** - Understanding the structure and purpose of the ATT&CK specification
- **[ATT&CK Versioning](./attack-versioning)** - Understanding ATT&CK's versioning approach

### Technical Architecture

- **[Schema Design Principles](./schema-design)** - Validation philosophy, refinement patterns, and extensibility choices

### Miscellaneous

- **[Architecture & Design Trade-offs](./trade-offs)** - Reasons why architecture decisions were made

---

Commit message:

docs: add new detections stix page

docusaurus/docs/principles/index.mdx, after:

import WorkInProgressNotice from '@site/src/components/WorkInProgressNotice';

# Guiding Principles

<WorkInProgressNotice />

This section explores the "why" behind the ATT&CK Data Model - the design decisions, architectural choices, and trade-offs that shape the library.
These explanations provide context and rationale rather than instructions, helping you understand the deeper principles that guide the project.

## Dive Deeper

### Foundational Context

- **[Why the ATT&CK Data Model Exists](./why-adm-exists)** - The problem context, solution approach, and value proposition
- **[Why TypeScript Instead of X](./why-typescript)** - Why we chose TypeScript
- **[Why Zod Instead of X](./why-zod)** - Why we chose Zod over other options
- **[Extending STIX](./extending-stix)** - How ATT&CK extends the STIX 2.1 specification

### ATT&CK Specification Understanding

- **[ATT&CK Specification Overview](./attack-specification-overview)** - Understanding the structure and purpose of the ATT&CK specification
- **[ATT&CK Versioning](./attack-versioning)** - Understanding ATT&CK's versioning approach
- **[Detections, Data Sources, and STIX](./attack-detections)** - Understanding the evolution of detection strategies in ATT&CK

### Technical Architecture

- **[Schema Design Principles](./schema-design)** - Validation philosophy, refinement patterns, and extensibility choices

### Miscellaneous

- **[Architecture & Design Trade-offs](./trade-offs)** - Reasons why architecture decisions were made

---
