docusaurus/schemas_versioned_docs/version-3.3.0/index.mdx, before:

# Schema Reference

Current ATT&CK Spec Version: [3.3.0](https://github.com/mitre-attack/attack-stix-data/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

| ATT&CK Concept | STIX Object Type | Link |
|----------------|------------------|------|
| Identity | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/identity.schema.mdx) |
| STIX Bundle | SDO | [Schema](./stix-bundle.schema) |
| Tool | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/tool.schema.mdx) |
| Detection Strategy | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/detection-strategy.schema.mdx) |
| Matrix | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/matrix.schema.mdx) |
| Asset | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/asset.schema.mdx) |
| Collection | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/collection.schema.mdx) |
| Analytic | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/analytic.schema.mdx) |
| Data Component | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/data-component.schema.mdx) |
| Group | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/group.schema.mdx) |
| Data Source | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/data-source.schema.mdx) |
| Tactic | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/tactic.schema.mdx) |
| Malware | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/malware.schema.mdx) |
| Mitigation | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/mitigation.schema.mdx) |
| Campaign | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/campaign.schema.mdx) |
| Technique | SDO | [Schema](./sdo/technique.schema.mdx) |
| Marking Definition | SMO | [Schema](./smo/marking-definition.schema.mdx) |
| Relationship | SRO | [Schema](./sro/relationship.schema.mdx) |

Commit message:

docs: create version 3.3.0 of schema docs and remove broken links

docusaurus/schemas_versioned_docs/version-3.3.0/index.mdx, after:

import OverviewTable from './attack-concept-table.mdx'

# The ATT&CK Specification

The ATT&CK specification is built atop the [STIX 2.1 specification](https://oasis-open.github.io/cti-documentation/resources#stix-21-specification). It is a codified expression of the concepts outlined in the [MITRE ATT&CK Philosophy Paper](https://attack.mitre.org/docs/ATTACK_Design_and_Philosophy_March_2020.pdf), expressed in the ATT&CK Data Model (ADM).

ATT&CK uses a mix of predefined and custom STIX objects to implement ATT&CK concepts. The following table is a mapping of ATT&CK concepts to STIX 2.1 objects:

## STIX Bundle Object

A STIX Bundle Object is not a STIX Object, rather it is a collection of arbitrary STIX Objects grouped together in a single container.
ATT&CK distributes a STIX bundle for each ATT&CK domain.

| ATT&CK Concept | STIX Object |
|:-------------- |:----------- |
| [STIX Bundle](./stix-bundle.schema) | `bundle` ([STIX 2.0](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/stix/v2.0/cs01/part1-stix-core/stix-v2.0-cs01-part1-stix-core.html#_Toc496709292), [STIX 2.1](https://docs.oasis-open.org/cti/stix/v2.1/os/stix-v2.1-os.html#_gms872kuzdmg)) |

<OverviewTable />

---
